# JSPrintManager for Blazor

## Print Commands & Files, Manage Printers & Scan Docs from Blazor Apps

**[JSPrintManager for Blazor](https://www.neodynamic.com/products/printing/js-print-manager/blazor)** is the most advanced solution for **Client-side Printing & Scanning** scenarios **designed to be used in any Blazor Server & WebAssembly projects!**

By writing pure .NET C# code, **JSPrintManager for Blazor** allows you to _easily send raw data, text and native commands_ as well as _known file formats (like PDF, TIFF, TXT, DOC, XLS, JPG, PNG)_ to any printer installed or available at the client machine *without showing or displaying any print dialog box!*
Scan Documents & Images is also supported!

**[More details about JSPrintManager for Blazor...](https://www.neodynamic.com/products/printing/js-print-manager/blazor)**

## Features

### Raw Data Printing
Send any raw data & commands supported by the client printer like [EPSON ESC/POS](#How-to-print-raw-ESC-POS-commands-from-Blazor), HP PCL, PostScript, [Zebra ZPL](#How-to-print-raw-Zebra-ZPL-commands-from-Blazor) and [Eltron EPL](#How-to-print-raw-Zebra-EPL-commands-from-Blazor), and more! Shipping labels generated by postal services like [UPS, FedEx, USPS, DHL as well as PRN files](#How-to-print-raw-commands-from-Web-APIs-WebServices-Remote-and-Local-files-with-Blazor) are also supported!

### Advanced PDF Printing
[Print PDF files without requiring Adobe Reader or any other external software!](#Advanced-Silent-PDF-Printing-Tray-Paper-Size-Rotation-Pages-Range-Settings-from-Blazor) Advanced PDF Printing settings include Tray Name, Paper Size, Print Rotation, Pages Range, Duplex, Password-protection and more!

### Print Images & Docs
In addition to print raw commands, you can also use JSPrintManager solution to send and print known file formats like PDF, TXT, DOC/x, XLS/x, JPG, PNG, and more! PDF, TXT, PNG, JPG and BMP are natively supported; others will require external software like Word, Excel, LibreOffice, etc.

### Advanced DOC Printing
[Print DOC files silently](#Silent-Print-Word-DOC-duplex-pages-range-reverse-from-Blazor) with Advanced Printing settings including Password-protected files, manual Duplex, Pages Range, and more! _Windows only, requires MS Word 97+_

### Advanced XLS Printing
[Print XLS files silently](#Silent-Print-Excel-Spreadsheet-XLS-pages-range-from-Blazor) with Advanced Printing settings including Password-protected files, Pages Range, and more! _Windows only, requires MS Excel 97+_

### Advanced Multipage TIFF Printing
Print Multipage TIFF image files silently with Advanced Printing settings including Tray Name, Paper Size, Print Rotation, Pages Range, Auto Rotate, Auto Center, Duplex, and more!

### Print Files With Password
Print Password Protected PDF, DOC & XLS files! The password protected file is set at server side and the password to unlock it is encrypted and embedded into the file as part of its metadata.

### Web Scan Docs & Images
[Scan docs & images through any TWAIN/WIA/SANE-compatible devices](#How-to-scan-documents-images-from-Blazor) specifying settings like DPI Resolution, Pixel Mode (Grayscale, Color, Black & White), and Output Image Format (JPG, PNG, TIF & PDF)! Under **Windows**, Duplex & Feeder (ADF) features are also supported!

### Tray/Bin & Paper Size
If the printer is installed in the client system through a Printer Driver, then you can specify to which Tray Name to send the print job and specify a Paper Size if desired. The file formats supported by this feature are PDF, JPEG, PNG, BMP & TXT

### BIDI Serial Comm
[Bidirectional Serial Port Communication support!](#How-to-send-write-receive-read-bidi-serial-port-data-from-Blazor) Send/Write & Receive/Read data strings to any RS-232, COM & TTY port available on the client system.

### BIDI TCP/IP Comm
Bidirectional TCP Communication support! Send/Write & Receive/Read data strings to any TCP Address and port reachable from the client system. The Address requires to be in the client's allow list!

### BIDI Bluetooth Comm
Bidirectional Bluetooth Communication support! Send/Write & Receive/Read data strings to any BT Address and Channel reachable from the client system. The Address requires to be in the client's allow list!

### IPP Comm
[IPP (Internet Printing Protocol) Communication support!](https://www.neodynamic.com/articles/How-to-send-request-IPP-internet-printing-protocol-from-Blazor) Send/Request IPP JSON messages to any IPP URI device and get IPP JSON response from the client system. The target IPP Device URI requires to be in the client's allow list!

### Get Printers Info & Status
Besides getting the list of installed printers available in the client machine, you can also get further details like DPI Resolution, PortName, "Is Connected", "Is Shared", "Is Local", "Is Network", "Is Virtual or Real/Physical printer?", as well as the list of supported Papers and list of trays/bins!

### Printers Watcher
Detect when a new printer is added, when a printer is removed/deleted, and when any changes or modifications are done on any printers available at the client machine. _Windows only_

### Get Print Jobs Status
Trace print jobs status when targeting any installed client printers. Got notified whether the print job completed, number of printed pages, and many more related information.

### Print Server Mode
[JSPrintManager can be installed and configured as a dedicated print service](#How-to-print-raw-commands-pdf-files-from-iOS-Android-ChromeOS-sandboxed-devices-from-Blazor) on a given Desktop, Server or Device running Windows, Linux, macOS/OSX or Raspberry Pi OSes

### Print from Mobile & Sandboxed Devices
With [JSPrintManager in Print Server Mode](#How-to-print-raw-commands-pdf-files-from-iOS-Android-ChromeOS-sandboxed-devices-from-Blazor), clients such as mobile/sandboxed devices (running iOS, Android, ChromeOS...) and Terminal Services/Citrix environments will be able to print from your website! Useful for Mobile Billing, Mobile POS, Mobile Ordering, etc.

### Print to Any Printer
Print to any brand and type of client printers! Thermal Label Barcode printers, POS receipt printers, Impact printers, Ticket printers, RFID printers, Dot-Matrix, 3D Printers and more!

### Get Printers Info
Besides getting the list of installed printers available in the client machine, you can also get further details like DPI Resolution, PortName, "Is Connected", "Is Shared", "Is Local", "Is Network", "[Is Virtual or Real/Physical printer?](#How-to-detect-virtual-real-physical-printer-from-Blazor)", as well as the list of supported Papers and list of trays/bins!

### Tray & Paper Size
If the printer is installed in the client system through a Printer Driver, then you can specify to which Tray Name to send the print job and specify a Paper Size if desired. The file formats supported by this feature are PDF, JPEG, PNG, BMP & TXT

### Printer Communication
Client Printers Connectivity support: installed printers through Printer Driver (for USB connection), Shared Printers, Parallel Port (LPT) or Serial Port RS-232 (COM) as well as IP/Ethernet Network printers. On Linux & Mac OS, any kind of printer installed through CUPS is supported.

### Cross Platform Client
Any Client platform can print from your Website. JSPrintManager App supports Windows, macOS / OS X, Linux & Raspberry Pi (Linux ARM) devices. It's a very small client App without external dependencies!  ~~No ActiveX,  No Flash,  No Silverlight,  No Java,  No .NET Framework~~


## JSPrintManager Components

- **The Website/Razor component (Neodynamic.Blazor.JSPrintManager.dll)** is a Razor Component which is used in a Blazor project to generate _"Client Print Jobs"_.

- **The Client-side component** is a lightweight native app (without any dependencies) that processes all the _"Client Print Jobs"_ generated by the Javascript object. **JSPrintManager App** can be installed on **Windows, Linux, Mac & Raspberry Pi!** **[Download JSPrintManager App...](https://neodynamic.com/downloads/jspm)**

## How to use JSPrintManager for Blazor - Sample Code

This GitHub repo contains the source code of:

- The [JSPrintManager for Blazor Server Online Demo Website](https://jspmblazorserver.azurewebsites.net) under _JSPMBlazorServerApp_ folder.
- The [JSPrintManager for Blazor WebAssembly with ASP.NET Core Hosted Online Demo Website](https://jspmblazorwasm.azurewebsites.net) under _JSPMBlazorHostedWASM_ folder.
- The JSPrintManager for Blazor WebAssembly standalone under _JSPMBlazorWASM_ folder.


## Licensing

**JSPrintManager for Blazor is a Commercial** product. Licensing model and prices are available [here](https://neodynamic.com/products/printing/js-print-manager/blazor/buy)

## Support

Tech questions are handled by [Neodynamic Dev Team](https://neodynamic/support)
